Practice (#109)
resource-watch/data-pre-processing: Pending_updates/bio_004_coral_reef_locations/README.md

## Coral Reef Locations Dataset Pre-processing
This file describes the data pre-processing that was done to [the Global Distribution of Coral Reefs (2010)](http://data.unep-wcmc.org/datasets/1) for [display on Resource Watch](https://resourcewatch.org/data/explore/6acb7469-29b4-4712-8254-8c130314337b).

> The source provided the data in a zipped file which contains:
> 1) a READ ME file
> 2) a license file
> 3) a folder containing Metadata
> 4) a folder containing a map of the data and the paper that describes the project
> 5) a shapefile for this dataset and another shapefile for a point dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source provided this dataset as two shapefiles - one of which contains polygon data, and the other contains point data.
```

Below, we describe the steps used to reformat the shapefile to upload it to Carto.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. We read in the data as a geopandas data frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Read in the polygon shapefile as a geopandas data frame.
```

> 2. We changed the data type of column 'PROTECT', 'PROTECT_FE', and 'METADATA_I' to integers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Change the data type of column 'PROTECT', 'PROTECT_FE', and 'METADATA_I' to integers.
```

> 3. We converted the geometries of the data from shapely to geojson.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Convert the geometries of the data from shapely objects to geojsons.
```

> 4. We created a new column from the index of the data frame to use as unique id in Carto.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a new column from the index of the dataframe to use as a unique id column (cartodb_id) in Carto.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
